{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red85\green85\blue85;\red0\green0\blue240;\red0\green0\blue242;
\red85\green25\blue140;\red77\green77\blue77;\red64\green64\blue64;\red255\green0\blue153;}
\paperw11904\paperh16835\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16840\viewh18320\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 THE NORTHERN BLOCK
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 \
13 Park Avenue\
Penistone\
Sheffield\
South Yorkshire\
S36 6DL\
England\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 E. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:info@thenorthenblock.co.uk"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 info@thenorthenblock.co.uk}}\cf4 \
\cf0 W. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.thenorthernblock.co.uk/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 http://www.thenorthernblock.co.uk}}\cf4 \
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 TNB README (OpenType)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf2 contents\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
TNB End User License Agreement\
Personal License Agreement\
Terminology\
Installing in Mac OS X\
Installing in Mac OS 8.6-9.2\
Installing in Windows 2000/XP\
Installing in Windows 95/98/ME/NT4\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 T.N.B. End User License Agreement
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2833\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf6 1. The Northern Block font is licensed for use on a single printer or output device in conjunction with a maximum of 5 CPU's or workstations connected to the same local area network. Add 25% of the original price for each additional workstation. \
\
2. If the purchased font is updated by The Northern Block in any way, you will receive a free copy of the modified font.\
\
3. The font remains the exclusive property of The Northern Block. The user of The Northern Block fonts agrees to identify the fonts by name and credit The Northern Block as the owner of the copyrights in any design or production credits.\
\
4. The Northern Block shall in no event be liable for any direct, indirect, consequential, or incidental damages, including damages from loss of business profits, business interruption, and loss of business information, arising out of the use or inability to use The Northern Block font. The Northern Block shall in no event give any technical support on how to use the fonts on your system. The Northern Block makes no warranties express or implied as to merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or otherwise.\
\
5. The Northern Block font software may not be copied or duplicated in any form except for the licensees own backup purposes. Do not redistribute The Northern Block fonts in any way!\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Personal or Internal Business Use\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf7 \'d2Personal or Internal Business Use\'d3 shall mean Use of the The Northern Block fonts for your customary personal or internal business purposes and shall not mean any distribution whatsoever of the TNB fonts or any component or Derivative Work thereof. \'d2Personal or Internal Business Use\'d3 shall not include any Use of The Northern Block fonts by persons that are not members of your immediate household, your authorized employees, or your authorized agents. All such household members, employees and agents shall be notified by you as to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and shall agree to be bound by it before they can have Use of The Northern Block fonts.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf7 Thank you for visiting http://www.thenorthernblock.co.uk\
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2833\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Terminology
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\

\f0\b\fs28 OPENTYPE FONT (OTF):
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2  
\fs24 OpenType fonts consist of a single file and function on both Macintosh and Windows platforms. They can contain thousands of glyphs and advanced typographic features such as auto-ligatures and alternate characters. OpenType has two different formats (or flavors): PostScript and TrueType.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 POSTSCRIPT-FLAVORED OPENTYPE:
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2  
\fs24 This format contains PostScript outlines. These files will have the ".otf" extension.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 TRUETYPE-FLAVORED OPENTYPE:
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2  
\fs24 This format contains TrueType outlines. These files will typically have the ".ttf" extension (or occasionally "otf" or ".ttc").\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ZIP ARCHIVE (.ZIP):
\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2  
\fs24 This is the compressed archive in which the fonts are delivered. To access the fonts, use your preferred utility to 'unzip' the archive. The resulting directory will contain the functional font files.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Installing in Mac OS X
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Before Installing:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 It is recommended that you quit applications before installing fonts. Certain applications will update their font menus automatically, but most will require a relaunch.
\fs32 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Using a Font Management Utility:
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 If you are using a a font management utility such as Suitcase or FontExplorer, follow the installation instructions provided with that software.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Using Font Book:
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 Later versions of OS X include Font Book. To install fonts using Font Book, simply double-click on the font file(s) in the Finder. A Font Book preview window will open. Click the "Install Font" button.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Direct Installation:
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 If you do not have Font Book or a management utility, you will need to install the font(s) directly into your system. There are various locations in which fonts can be installed, including the Library folder within your Home folder. For detailed information on the best option for you, visit Apple's website (including {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=106417"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=106417}}). Once you determine the best folder for your needs, copy the OpenType font file(s) into it.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Classic Installation:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 To use OpenType fonts in Classic mode you will need to install the fonts in the Classic System Folder. See the instructions below for Installing in Mac OS 8.x-9.x.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 After Installation:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 You are now ready to relaunch your applications and use your new fonts. *Remember to back up the originals on a separate disk after installation!\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Installing in Mac OS 8.6-9.2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Overview:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 To use OpenType fonts, you will need Adobe Type Manager 4.6 or later installed on your system. You can download the free version here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.adobe.com/products/atmlight/main.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 http://www.adobe.com/products/atmlight/main.html}}\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 1.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 Quit all applications before installing your OpenType font(s).\cf0 \
\

\f0\b 2.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 Open the folder containing your new font(s) and copy the OpenType file(s) to the System folder on your hard drive.\cf0 \
\

\f0\b 3.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 A dialog window will pop up telling you that the font files will be placed in the Fonts folder. Click "OK". Note that the fonts must be installed in the Fonts folder and cannot be in a sub-folder.\cf0 \
\

\f0\b 4.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 You are now ready to use your new fonts. *Remember to back up the originals on a separate disk after installation!\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Installing OpenType fonts in Windows 2000/XP
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Overview:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf2 Windows XP provides native support for the OpenType format. For the most comprehensive information on font installation in Windows, visit Microsoft's website: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.microsoft.com/typography/users.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 http://www.microsoft.com/typography/users.htm}}\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 1.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 From the Control Panel open the Fonts folder.\cf0 \
\

\f0\b 2.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 In the Fonts window select the File menu and click "Install New Font".\cf0 \
\

\f0\b 3.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 Navigate to the folder containing the new fonts and select them (use the CTRL key for multiples). Click "OK" and close the Fonts Control Panel.\cf0 \
\

\f0\b 4.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 Remember to back up your new font on a separate disk.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Installing OpenType fonts in Windows 95/98/ME/NT4
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Overview:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 To use OpenType fonts on older versions of Windows, you will need Adobe Type Manager (ATM) 4.1 or later installed on your system. You can download the free version here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.adobe.com/products/atmlight/main.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 http://www.adobe.com/products/atmlight/main.html}}.\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 1.
\f1\b0  \'ca \cf2 Click Start>Programs>Adobe>Adobe Type Manager.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf2 2.
\f1\b0  \'ca In the ATM window, click the "Fonts" tab.\
\

\f0\b 3.
\f1\b0  \'ca Navigate to the folder containing the new fonts and select them (use the CTRL key for multiples). Click "OK" and close the Fonts Control Panel.\
\

\f0\b 4.
\f1\b0  \'ca Click "Add" to install the font(s), then exit ATM.\
\

\f0\b 5.
\f1\b0  \'ca Remember to back up your new font on a separate disk!\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\ql\qnatural
\cf2 \
}